So, we wanna take a minute or two to
kinda go over the protocol operations or
the general operations of the SIP.
Let's take a look here.
Now, what does a SIP do?
What is this protocol?
What are the operations of this protocol?
Now, in general, it's basically like
Randy said in the previous video or
one of the videos before that,
it's in charge of the interlinking or
the session that takes place.
>> Basically like the guy
that makes all the rules for
how do you send the video or
audio message.
>> Yeah, and you know, over different
settings you can have multiparty.
But, you know, definitely need two people.
>> Right.
[LAUGH]
>> As a standard procedure at least two.
So, two or multiple people.
[COUGH] Now,
the SIP was built very similar,
if not almost identical to HTTP.
So, a lot of the request respond
situations that you're gonna experience
in HTTP, kind of like what we did in
course two where we built
the Dragonboard monitor and
course three where we kind of had
a communicate and send stuff to the GPIOs.
>> Right.
>> A lot of that formatting is gonna
be very similar because it's built on the
same kinda language or the same script.
Now, you can kinda see on the slides
there, if you want to take a look, just
a few other kinda things that we found
interesting about the protocol operations.
But yeah, so
you have the SIP network resources
are identified using a URI,
which is a Uniform Resource Identifier.
This is your kind of identification.
>> Right.
>> So, it's like your address.
>> Your address.
>> It's like,
regular phones you have a phone number.
But for these SIP phones, or the SIP VoIP
applications, you have a SIP URI.
>> Yeah, so I know like for, what is it,
for when we made our Linphone,
when we registered with Linphone.
We made our account, and for instance,
say, we called it Dragonboard.
So, our account would be
sip:dragonboard@sip.linphone.org.
So, that's your URI, basically your URI.
Oh, actually it's up there, sip:username.
[LAUGH]
>> In the slide, all right, cool.
Yeah, so anyways, and
in some cases it's a password,
in some cases not but yeah,
so protocol operations.
And looking more into the protocol
operations, as you can see,
[COUGH] it's basically involved in
the signaling portion of communications.
So, it is gonna be what kind of pings
out the signals, the data and such.
We mentioned in a previous lesson that
SIP functions on two ports mainly,
and we have them up there.
It's port 5060, which is used for
non-encrypted signaling traffic and
then you have port 5061, which is for
traffic that's encrypted.
Now, if you're ever connected onto
your Wi-Fi, or the Internet, and
you have an option to choose your security
setting, and you have it set to TLS.
Now, if you're running
your VoIP program on
port 5060, but you're on a TLS Wi-Fi or
network, then you might
run into some issues.
>> Right.
>> That's something to think about
when deciding what port to use, right?
So, there's really only two to choose
from and yeah, so there you go.
Anyways, these are the protocol
operations that we wanted to go through.
We hope that it helped you out just
a little bit to get more in tuned with
SIP and its kind of underlying operations.
>> And how it works with VoIP and
everything like that.
>> Yeah, so we'll go into a little bit
more in the next video, so stay tuned.